---
layout: post
date: 2023-06-23 22:20:25 +0800
title: opencv基础操作
author: solitaryclown
categories: 
tags: 
excerpt: ""
---
* content
{:toc}

# opencv基础操作
## 图像读取显示

1. 读取图像
   
   `Mat imread( const String& filename, int flags = IMREAD_COLOR )`:读取图像，返回Mat实例
    参数：
    * flags:图像读取模式,
    > enum ImreadModes {
       IMREAD_UNCHANGED            = -1, //!< If set, return the loaded image as is (with alpha channel, otherwise it gets cropped). Ignore EXIF orientation.
       IMREAD_GRAYSCALE            = 0,  //!< If set, always convert image to the single channel grayscale image (codec internal conversion).
       IMREAD_COLOR                = 1,  //!< If set, always convert image to the 3 channel BGR color image.
       IMREAD_ANYDEPTH             = 2,  //!< If set, return 16-bit/32-bit image when the input has the corresponding depth, otherwise convert it to 8-bit.
       IMREAD_ANYCOLOR             = 4,  //!< If set, the image is read in any possible color format.
       IMREAD_LOAD_GDAL            = 8,  //!< If set, use the gdal driver for loading the image.
       IMREAD_REDUCED_GRAYSCALE_2  = 16, //!< If set, always convert image to the single channel grayscale image and the image size reduced 1/2.
       IMREAD_REDUCED_COLOR_2      = 17, //!< If set, always convert image to the 3 channel BGR color image and the image size reduced 1/2.
       IMREAD_REDUCED_GRAYSCALE_4  = 32, //!< If set, always convert image to the single channel grayscale image and the image size reduced 1/4.
       IMREAD_REDUCED_COLOR_4      = 33, //!< If set, always convert image to the 3 channel BGR color image and the image size reduced 1/4.
       IMREAD_REDUCED_GRAYSCALE_8  = 64, //!< If set, always convert image to the single channel grayscale image and the image size reduced 1/8.
       IMREAD_REDUCED_COLOR_8      = 65, //!< If set, always convert image to the 3 channel BGR color image and the image size reduced 1/8.
       IMREAD_IGNORE_ORIENTATION   = 128 //!< If set, do not rotate the image according to EXIF's orientation flag.
     };

    
2. 显示图像